# A basic SAMBA share for home networks

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Intro

Most SAMBA guides I find online are some combination of out of date or focused on the enterprise. My objective is to easily share files from a Linux server to Windows clients. This is only appropriate for a home network. I'm sacrificing security/specific user permissions for being easily able to connect to my file share. On a small LAN where I can easily physically monitor the devices I think this is worth it. Clearly you should not do this for an organization or if you have more sensitive data you're sharing.

## What I'm installing this on

The current server I'm running this on is an Ubuntu 18.04 machine. Hopefully most of this will translate to similar setups. I'm sure I'll be upgrading the OS soon so I'll edit this if I encounter any breaking changes.

## The steps

### Install samba

```bash
sudo apt install samba
```

### Backup any existing smb.conf and then update

```bash
# If you have one already
sudo mv /etc/samba/smb.conf /etc/samba/smb.conf.bak
```

Now setup the new ```smb.conf```:

```bash
[global]
        map to guest = Bad User
        logging = systemd
        log level = 1
        guest account = <username>

[data]
        # This share allows guest read write access
        # without authentication, hope you trust everyone on your LAN
        path = /mnt/data/ # Or whatever folder you're sharing
        read only = no
        guest ok = yes
        guest only = yes
```

Where \<username\> is the user on your samba server that has appropriate access to the folder you're sharing.

After saving the config file you can run ```testparm``` to see if there are any syntax errors.

### Restart and enable SAMBA, give it a test

From the samba server:

```bash
sudo systemctl status smbd # check if it's running
# If it's running do this
sudo systemctl restart smbd
# If it's not do this
sudo systemctl start smbd
```

Try and connect from a Windows machine, make sure you can create and delete files. Back on the samba client you can check if the files you created have the right permissions (should be assigned to the user you created).

Assuming everything works enable the server so it will reload if you restart the machine. From the samba server:

```bash
sudo systemclt enable smbd
```

## Conclusion

That's it! Super simple but every time I tried to get a SAMBA share going in the past I always ended up struggling. Hopefully this guide will be helpful to future me and anyone else who's got a similar situation.
